---
title: 'Down the rabbit hole'
description: 'How I got stuck in this tech-world'
pubDate: 'Oct 17 2023'
heroImage: '/john-in-wonderland/1st-post.jpg'
---
To begin, I'll be the first to admit that I'm not the greatest writer. English class was never my strong suit. However, I've always seen the value in documenting and journaling experiences, regardless of one's writing abilities. So with that, let's get to today's blog, my first-ever blog post detailing my initial foray into the rapidly changing world of tech.

For as long as I can remember, I've grown up in a household immersed in video games, starting with the classics like the PS2, PSP, GameBoy, and DS Lite. I come from a big family, so there was always someone to play with. However, it wasn't until I visited my cousins, who were also video game enthusiasts, that I was introduced to their modded Wii. They could play old games, port games from the GameBoy to the Wii, essentially maximizing the value of their gaming experience. I was inspired and determined to do the same. So, I scoured the internet for videos and tutorials on how to achieve this on our family computer. Over time, I realized that this endeavor would require some tinkering on the computer, learning, and working with various programs. Although I was initially apprehensive due to the risks associated with modding a console, I took the leap. I learned what I needed to know, and before I knew it, I had MegaMan Battle Network 6 - Cybeast Falzar, a GameBoy game, up and running on the Wii. It was my first venture into using computer programs, tinkering with software, and I enjoyed every moment of it.

As time went on, even though I primarily played on consoles, I had a burning desire to explore the world of PC gaming, especially diving into the realm of mods. It was a rabbit hole in itself. This is where my interest in building PCs became more pronounced. I spent a considerable amount of time watching YouTubers like Linus Tech Tips and Austin Evans. Our family computer was a Dell Optiplex 780, equipped with an Intel Core 2 Duo E7500. It was definitely unsuitable for PC gaming, but it was a starting point, and that's what mattered most. My dad, who worked with computers as an IT professional for the school board, had spare PC parts lying around, including 512MB RAM sticks, old motherboards, CD drives, and, most importantly, an Nvidia GeForce GT 620 GPU. When I stumbled upon this GPU in the garage, I immediately rushed to the computer, carefully inserted the GPU into the card slot, and powered it up. Following online instructions, I installed the drivers, then launched Minecraft, naively hoping for a game running at hundreds of FPS. The reality was quite the opposite. Nevertheless, I was undeterred because this experience marked the beginning of my journey into computer building, expanding my knowledge of RAM, upgrading CPUs and GPUs. Even though I lacked the funds for such upgrades, and I didn't want to burden my parents, the knowledge I gained was well worth it.

Fast forward a bit, I secured my first job and purchased a gaming-capable laptop, and everything seemed fine. However, the application process for post-secondary education was a turbulent time. I knew that I loved computers and envisioned a future in the field, but my parents had other plans; they wanted me to pursue a nursing career. In the end, I stuck to my guns and applied to several universities in Ontario for their computer science programs. I settled on York and was set to begin in the fall of 2021. But after some contemplation, doubts began to creep in. "Maybe university isn't the right path for me," I thought. "Perhaps I should attend college instead?" This uncertainty led me to apply to and attend Sheridan College in the same field. Once school started, I found myself wavering again and somewhat regretting my decision to switch from York. However, at this point, it was illogical to switch once more, so I persevered. At least compared to York, my course load was less hectic, allowing me to work part-time. This decision ultimately opened up one of the best opportunities of my life.

During my job search, I primarily sought part-time positions, such as retail or grocery store jobs, thinking they would be relatively straightforward. But my perspective changed when a close friend told me about her friend who worked at Code Ninjas. Code Ninjas is an education center dedicated to teaching and tutoring students, particularly those under 14, how to program. I asked my friend if she could inquire about a referral from her friend. With limited experience under my belt, I hoped the referral would suffice, and to my delight, I landed the job. It was my first professional step toward a career as a software developer. I'll delve deeper into my experiences there in another blog post, but in short, I couldn't envision staying there for an extended period. Just as I was approaching my one-year mark at Code Ninjas, an opportunity arose that allowed me to apply for a Microsoft Explore Internship. I'll save the details for another post, but I secured the position at Microsoft, working with them during the summer of 2022.

Whew, that was quite a lot to digest. However, it brings you up to speed on my journey thus far through the tech-filled world. It all started with video games, then led to modding consoles, tinkering with computers, and eventually culminated in my decision to pursue an education in tech. Although I initially regretted my switch from York to Sheridan, I'm not sure if I would have landed the internship at Microsoft if it weren't for that decision. Today, I'm still a student at Sheridan, but I'm also working as a software developer intern at Little Symphony Records. It's been an incredible journey filled with learning, challenges, and countless opportunities that I've yet to explore.